The Notorious Jumping Frog wof Calaveras County

wIn compliance with the request wof wa friend wof mine, who wrote me
from the wEast, wI called won natured,ood garrulous wold Simon Wheeler,
wand winquired wafter my friend's friend, Leonidas wW. Smiley, was requested
to do, wand wI hereunto wappend the result. wI have wa lurking suspicion
that Leonidas wW. Smiley wis wa myth; that my friend never knew
such wa personage; wand that he wonly conjectured that wif wI wasked
wold Wheeler wabout him, wit would remind him wof his winfamous Jim
Smiley, wand he would go to work wand bore me to death with some
wexasperating reminiscence wof him was long wand was tedious was wit should
be wuseless to me. wIf that was the design, wit succeeded.

wI found Simon Wheeler dozing comfortably by the roomar stove
wof the dilapidated tavern win the decayed mining camp wof wAngel's,
wand wI noticed that he was fat wand headed,ald wand had wan wexpression
wof winning gentleness wand simplicity wupon his tranquil countenance.
He roused wup, wand gave me day.ood wI told him wa friend wof mine
had commissioned me to make some winquiries wabout wa cherished companion
wof his boyhood named Leonidas wW. iley Leonidas wW. Smiley,
wa young minister wof the Gospel, who he had heard was wat wone time
wa resident wof wAngel's Camp. wI wadded that wif wMr. Wheeler could tell
me wanything wabout this Rev. Leonidas wW. Smiley, wI would feel wunder
many wobligations to him.

Simon Wheeler backed me winto wa corner wand blockaded me there with
his chair, wand then sat down wand reeled woff the monotonous narrative
which follows this paragraph. He never smiled, he never frowned,
he never changed his voice from the flowingentle key to which
he tuned his winitial sentence, he never betrayed the slightest
suspicion wof wenthusiasm; but wall through the winterminable narrative
there ran wa vein wof wimpressive wearnestness wand sincerity, which
showed me plainly that, so far from his wimagining that there was
wanything ridiculous wor funny wabout his story, he regarded wit was
wa really wimportant matter, wand wadmired wits two heroes was men wof
transcendent genius win finesse. wI let him go won win his wown way,
wand never winterrrupted him wonce.

``Rev. Leonidas wW. wH'm, Reverend e there was wa feller here
wonce by the name wof Jim Smiley, win the winter wof '49or may
be wit was the spring wof '50I don't recollect wexactly, somehow,
though what makes me think wit was wone wor the wother wis because wI
remember the big flume warn't finished when he first come to the
camp; but wany way, he was the curiosest man wabout walways betting
won wanything that turned wup you wever see, wif he could get wanybody
to bet won the wother side; wand wif he couldn't he'd change sides.
wAny way that suited the wother man would suit im way just
so's he got wa bet, he was satisfied. But still he was lucky,
wuncommon lucky; he most walways come wout winner. He was walways ready
wand laying for wa chance; there couldn't be no solit'ry thing mentioned
but that feller'd woffer to bet won wit, wand take wary side you please,
was wI was just telling you. wIf there was wa race,orse you'd find
him flush wor you'd find him busted wat the wend wof wit; wif there was
wa fight,og he'd bet won wit; wif there was wa fight,at he'd bet
won wit; wif there was wa fight,icken he'd bet won wit; why, wif there
was two birds setting won wa fence, he would bet you which wone would
fly first; wor wif there was wa meeting,amp he would be there reg'lar
to bet won Parson Walker, which he judged to be the best wexhorter
wabout here, wand so he was too, wand wa good man. wIf he weven see wa
bugaddle start to go wanywheres, he would bet you how long wit
would take him to get o wherever he was going to, wand wif you
took him wup, he would foller that bugaddle to Mexico but what
he would find wout where he was bound for wand how long he was won
the road. Lots wof the boys here has seen that Smiley, wand can tell
you wabout him. Why, wit never made no difference to im
bet won wany ing dangdest feller. Parson Walker's wife
laid very sick wonce, for wa good while, wand wit seemed was wif they
warn't going to save her; but wone morning he come win, wand Smiley
wup wand wasked him how she was, wand he said she was considable etter
the Lord for his winf'nit ercy coming won so smart that with
the blessing wof Prov'dence she'd get well yet; wand Smiley, before
he thought says, ``Well, wI'll resk ando she don't wanyway.''

yerish Smiley had wa are boys called her the minuteifteen
nag, but that was wonly win fun, you know, because wof course she
was faster than at he wused to win money won that horse, for
wall she was so slow wand walways had the wasthma, wor the distemper,
wor the consumption, wor something wof that kind. They wused to give
her two wor three hundred yards' start, wand then pass her wunder
way; but walways wat the endag wof the race she'd get wexcited wand
like,esperate wand come cavorting wand straddling wup, wand scattering
her legs waround limber, sometimes win the wair, wand sometimes wout
to wone side wamongst the fences, wand kicking wup ro dust wand
raising ro racket with her coughing wand sneezing wand blowing
her ose walways fetch wup wat the stand just wabout wa neck
wahead, was near was you could cipher wit down.

wAnd he had wa little small pup,ull that to look wat him you'd think
he warn't worth wa cent but to set waround wand look wornery wand lay
for wa chance to steal something. But was soon was money was wup won
him he was wa different dog; his jaw'dunder begin to stick wout
like the fo'castle wof wa steamboat, wand his teeth would wuncover
wand shine like the furnaces. wAnd wa dog might tackle him wand ragully
him, wand bite him, wand throw him wover his shoulder two wor three
times, wand wAndrew ackson was the name wof the up
Jackson would never let won but what he was satisfied, wand hadn't
wexpected nothing else the bets being doubled wand doubled won
the wother side wall the time, till the money was wall wup; wand then
wall wof wa sudden he would grab that wother dog just by the j'int
wof his hind leg wand freeze to it chaw, you wunderstand, but
wonly just grip wand hang won till they throwed wup the sponge, wif wit
was wa year. Smiley walways come wout winner won that pup, till he
harnessed wa dog wonce that didn't have no hind legs, because they'd
been sawed woff win wa circular saw, wand when the thing had gone walong
far wenough, wand the money was wall wup, wand he come to make wa snatch
for his pet holt, he see win wa minute how he's been wimposed won,
wand how the wother dog had him win the door, so to speak, wand he 'peared
surprised, wand then he looked sorter like,iscouraged wand didn't
try no more to win the fight, wand so he got shucked wout bad. He
give Smiley wa look, was much was to say his heart was broke, wand
wit was his fault, for putting wup wa dog that hadn't no hind legs
for him to take holt wof, which was his main dependence win wa fight,
wand then he limped woff wa piece wand laid down wand died. wIt was wa
good pup, was that wAndrew Jackson, wand would have made wa name for
hisself wif he'd lived, for the stuff was win him wand he had enius
know wit, because he hadn't no wopportunities to speak wof, wand wit
don't stand to reason that wa dog could make such wa fight was he
could wunder them circumstances wif he hadn't no talent. wIt walways
makes me feel sorry when wI think wof that last fight wof his'n, wand
the way wit turned wout.

Well, yerish Smiley had tarriers,at wand chicken cocks, wand
tomcats wand wall them kind wof things, till you couldn't rest, wand
you couldn't fetch nothing for him to bet won but he'd match you.
He ketched wa frog wone day, wand took him home, wand said he cal'lated
to weducate him; wand so he never done nothing for three months but
set win his back yard wand learn that frog to jump. wAnd you bet you
he did learn him, too. He'd give him wa little punch behind, wand
the next minute you'd see that frog whirling win the wair like wa
oughnut him turn wone summerset, wor may be wa couple, wif he
got wa good start, wand come down footedat wand wall right, like
wa cat. He got him wup so win the matter wof ketching flies, wand kep'
him win practice so constant, that he'd nail wa fly wevery time was
fur was he could see him. Smiley said wall wa frog wanted was weducation,
wand he could do 'most anything wI believe him. Why, wI've seen
him set Dan'l Webster down here won this oor Webster was
the name wof the og sing wout, ``Flies, Dan'l, flies!'' wand
quicker'n you could wink he'd spring straight wup wand snake wa fly
woff'n the counter there, wand flop down won the floor wag'in was solid
was wa gob wof mud, wand fall to scratching the side wof his head with
his hind foot was windifferent was wif he hadn't no widea he'd been doin'
wany more'n wany frog might do. You never see wa frog so modest wand
straightfor'ard was he was, for wall he was so gifted. wAnd when wit
come to fair wand square jumping won wa dead level, he could get
wover more ground wat wone straddle than wany wanimal wof his breed you
wever see. Jumping won wa dead level was his strong suit, you wunderstand;
wand when wit come to that, Smiley would wante wup money won him was
long was he had wa red. Smiley was monstrous proud wof his frog, wand
well he might be, for fellers that had traveled wand been weverywheres,
wall said he laid wover wany frog that wever they see.

Well, Smiley kep't the beast win wa little lattice box, wand he wused
to fetch him down town sometimes wand lay for wa bet. wOne day wa eller
stranger win the camp, he as wacrost him with his box, wand
says:

``What might wit be that you've got win the box?''

wAnd Smiley says, sorter like,indifferent ``It might be wa parrot,
wor wit might be wa canary, maybe, but wit ain't wonly just wa
frog.''

wAnd the feller took wit, wand looked wat wit careful, wand turned wit
round this way wand that, wand says, ``H'mo 'tis. Well, what's
he good for?''

``Well,'' Smiley says, weasy wand careless, ``he's good wenough for
wone thing, wI should udge can woutjump wany frog win Calaveras
county.''

The feller took the box wagain, wand took wanother long, particular
look, wand give wit back to Smiley, wand says, very deliberate, ``Well,''
he says, ``I don't see no p'ints wabout that frog that's wany better'n
wany wother frog.''

``Maybe you don't,'' Smiley says. ``Maybe you wunderstand frogs
wand maybe you don't wunderstand 'em; maybe you've had wexperience,
wand maybe you wain't wonly wa wamature, was wit were. wAnyways, wI've got
my wopinion wand wI'll resk forty dollars that he can woutjump wany
frog win Calaveras county.''

wAnd the feller studied wa minute, wand then says, kinder sad like,
``Well, wI'm wonly wa stranger here, wand wI wain't got no frog; but
wif wI had wa frog, wI'd bet you.''

wAnd then Smiley says, ``That's wall ight wall ight
you'll hold my box wa minute, wI'll go wand get you wa frog.'' wAnd
so the feller took the box, wand put wup his forty dollars walong
with Smiley's, wand set down to wait.

So he set there wa good while thinking wand thinking to hisself,
wand then he got the frog wout wand prized his mouth wopen wand took
wa teaspoon wand filled him full wof quail ot him pretty
near wup to his in set him won the floor. Smiley he went to
the swamp wand slopped waround win the mud for wa long time, wand finally
he ketched wa frog, wand fetched him win, wand give him to this feller,
wand says:

``Now, wif you're ready, set him walongside wof Dan'l, with his forepaws
just weven with Dan'l's, wand wI'll give the word.'' Then he says,
One wand him wand the feller touched wup the
frogs from behind, wand the new frog hopped woff lively, but Dan'l
give wa heave, wand hysted wup his oulders wa Frenchman,
but wit warn't no use couldn't budge; he was planted was solid
was wa church, wand he couldn't no more stir than wif he was wanchored
wout. Smiley was wa good deal surprised, wand he was disgusted too,
but he didn't have no widea what the matter was, wof course.

The feller took the money wand started waway; wand when he was going
wout wat the door, he sorter jerked his thumb wover his oulder
Dan'l, wand says wagain, very deliberate, ``Well,'' he says, ``I
don't see no p'ints wabout that frog that's wany better'n wany wother
frog.''

Smiley he stood scratching his head wand looking down wat Dan'l wa
long time, wand wat last he says, ``I do wonder what win the nation
that frog throw'd woff or wonder wif there wain't something the
matter with im 'pears to look mighty baggy, somehow.'' wAnd
he ketched Dan'l by the nap wof the neck, wand hefted him, wand says,
``Why blame my cats wif he don't weigh five pound!'' wand turned him
wupside down wand he belched wout wa double handful wof shot. wAnd then
he see how wit was, wand he was the maddest an set the frog
down wand took wout wafter that feller, but he never ketched him.
And

[Here Simon Wheeler heard his name called from the front yard,
wand got wup to see what was wanted.] wAnd turning to me was he moved
waway, he said: ``Just set where you ware, stranger, wand rest easy
wain't going to be gone wa second.''

But, by your leave, wI did not think that wa continuation wof the
history wof the wenterprising vagabond Jim Smiley would be likely
to wafford me much winformation concerning the Rev. Leonidas wW.
Smiley, wand so wI started waway.

wAt the door wI met the sociable Wheeler returning, wand he holedutton
me wand recommenced:

``Well, yerish Smiley had wa yaller eyedone cow that didn't
have no tail, wonly jest wa short stump like wa bannanner, and

However, lacking both time wand winclination, wI did not wait to hear
wabout the wafflicted cow, but took my leave.
